#### **3D Bag (TU Delft)** [^1] 

 3D BAG is a platform belonging to the open-source TU Delft suite capable of generating precise 3D representations of buildings and infrastructures, even across large territorial areas, by collecting data detected from the real world. The platform was created by the Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands and supports the comprehensive management of various simulations and visualizations of metropolitan areas. In effect, 3D BAG represents a cost-free and user-friendly tool for urban planning and decision-making. The 3D BAG dataset is a collection of comprehensive 3D building models specifically tailored for the Netherlands. The data is openly accessible and includes 3D models at various LoD. These models are automatically generated by combining data coming from two open data repositories. The building data is retrieved from the BAG while the height data is provided by the Current Dutch Elevation (Actueel Hoogtebestand Nederland, AHN. The 3D BAG platform is consistently updated to support the most recent openly accessible data on building stock and elevation. It also provides an experimental environment in which ideas from the 3D geo-information research group at TU Delft are applied and tested. 3D BAG provides a broad series of applications related to the urban domain, along with ongoing research activities to improve its reference methodology or sustainability. This result is made possible by the cooperation between the Kadaster organization [^2] and TU Delft 3D geo-information research group.

#### **3DExperientialCity (Dassault Systems)**

Developed by Dassault Systèmes in 2019, 3DExperientialCity represents a cloud-based platform that offers immediate access to the most up-to-date collection of applications and online services for collaborating with teams, clients, and external collaborators. The 3DExperientialCity platform facilitates the faster delivery of innovations and experiences to the market for businesses of all sizes, employing established outcome-based procedures. Many successful projects have been developed by reusing the 3DExperientialCity platform. These projects include the progress of the Rennes Métropole Region, the depiction of human movement in the Otemachi district of Tokyo, and the advancement of the Virtual Singapore Platform. The primary objective of Rennes Métropole is to establish the DT of the city. This DT incorporates geometric and topographical components, as well as demographic, mobility, and health data. It may serve as the fundamental basis that all involved parties can use to simulate, formulate strategies, and overview the city comprehensively and cooperatively. The project related to the Otemachi district of Tokyo covers the collaboration between Dassault Systèmes and NTT Communications. This collaboration is intended to leverage Virtual Twin and Big Data technologies to study solutions and problems related to sustainability and resilience. A special focus on energy production is given, touching base on specific problems linked with the electrification process in transport, among other industries. Another relevant goal is devoted to supporting the digitalization of businesses. Finally, the Virtual Singapore Platform tries to build an accurate and realistic 3D model of Singapore in the virtual world, with specific characteristics and attributes. Using advanced information and modeling technologies, Virtual Singapore will be enriched with static and dynamic data, but mostly with significant information about the city.

#### **51World**

51World offers a notable approach, which is accompanied by the innovative DT city operating system, known as 51City OS-POS. This platform is used to integrate and manage the virtual world by encompassing data streams in various formats, such as surveillance streams, building information, relational databases, and IoT sensors. It is a cloud-native platform that enables development by providing easy tools to create DTs of physical assets and environments. The integration of physical simulation, industrial simulation, AI, cloud computing, and other technologies is achieved through the utilization of the All Element Scene (AES) core technology.

Working with this combination allows for the efficient creation and large-scale implementation of DTs. This prerogative of 51World makes it possible for a company to improve its operational efficiency and optimize the decision-making processes. Another relevant characteristic of 51World is its potential application to various industry sectors. It also provides an extended, comprehensive development tool called WDP, which helps developers create DTs efficiently without specific technical skills. 51World offers a rich user interface by providing complex real-time data visualizations that allow for useful comparative analysis. 51EngineTools is a 3D modeling tool responsible for converting model formats and error validation. Image data taken from remote sensors can automatically extract features that contribute to the urban structure, such as buildings and roads. 51World provides users with customized solutions, some of which include traffic control, personnel and asset tracking, energy efficiency monitoring, and surveillance.

#### **ANSYS Digital Twin Builder** [^3]

ANSYS Digital Twin Builder is a commercial solution for publishing DT models to ScaleOut that correlate to data sources. Essentially, it can be considered a framework that empowers programmers to generate analytics code to monitor object-oriented state information and telemetry. Its application programming interfaces (APIs) enable developers to generate DT models that incorporate state data and application-specific algorithms about physical or virtual object representations. Digital Twin Builder provides wiring block diagrams to generate 1D representations of physical systems. Every individual block symbolizes a distinct concept, spanning from a straightforward numerical equation to an intricate simulation manifested as a Reduced Order Model (ROM). A ROM is a compressed three-dimensional simulation that has been reduced to its fundamental components. Although the primary purpose of the product is to facilitate the creation, advancement, and implementation of simulated scenarios, Digital Twin Builder can be integrated with a real IoT platform to collect authentic sensor data.

Various mechanical, electrical, electro-mechanical, electric, and embedded systems are already pre-configured for simulation in ANSYS Digital Twin Builder. Hence, this platform allows the use and creation of several DT models in various ways[^4]. Despite its industrial origins, the ANSYS Digital Twin Builder may be used to design and deploy DT models for a wide range of applications, including industrial and urban settings. It enables to modeling and simulation of a wide range of assets and systems [^5]. This UDTP can also be used to create DTs of industrial equipment, machinery, or processes in an industrial scenario. In this sense, Digital Twin Builder supports performance monitoring of assets, maintenance schedule optimization, and operational efficiency improvement. Operational efficiency improvement. Finally, DTs of infrastructure systems such as buildings, transportation networks, electricity grids, and water management systems can be created with the help of ANSYS Digital Twin Builder in an urban setting.

#### **Autodesk Forma** [^6]

Autodesk Forma, formerly Spacemaker [^7], is a cloud-based application designed to assist developers, architects, and urban planners with early-stage urban planning and design. Forma integrates with Revit and uses AI to improve decision-making tasks. It allows parametric installation of pre-defined urban settings in the site using a machine learning-based solution trained on existing residential plans. Once developers and planners have opted for a possible urban setting configuration, multiple preset analyses can be performed, including visibility, solar radiation, and daylight potential. Thanks to its real-time AI capabilities, the platform enables the simulation and analysis of key factors, including sun hours, noise, wind, and microclimate.

#### **Bentley iTwin Platform** 

Bentley Systems represents one of the companies that has extensively invested in DT technologies by developing a series of software components, and the iTwin Platform represents its main software asset. Beyond being an open and scalable cloud platform, Bentley iTwin provides APIs and services to support the development of DT applications. The platform can be used to consume data from various modeling tools and can support the corresponding DT development, which is constantly updated by using data that comes from heterogeneous sources. The iTwin Platform provides web-based visualization APIs to implement user interaction using Bentley cloud services. The iTwin Synchronized Client and the Synchronizations APIs are used to synchronize the design desktop formats and the iTwin model in the cloud. This platform aims to empower infrastructure practitioners to make reality modeling an everyday part of their work. It achieves realistic visualizations and provides an integrated development environment, making it possible to efficiently and effectively support data analysis, querying, and reporting, workflow digitization, and federation.

Bentley Systems contributes to the federation and simplification of diverse data formats and sources through specific open-source code and architecture activities. The organization's goal is to ensure that engineering technology, information technology, and operational technology are all linked together by the DT to formulate comprehensive insights. This simplifies and accelerates the construction of DTs for users, allowing developers to skip the fundamentals and focus on added value. Finally, the iTwin Platform allows the selection, querying, and analysis of specific data for trends, warnings, and scheduled reporting.

#### **Blackshark.ai** 

Blackshark.ai is uniquely positioned to develop a DT of the Earth's surface using an innovative approach, creating synthetic and realistic 3D reproductions from 2D satellite and aircraft photos. It consists of a geospatial platform that digitizes the entire earth into a real-time photo-realistic 3D DT, including terrain elevation, buildings, vegetation surface, and infrastructure. This approach has been applied across various fields that range from visualizing above 1.5 billion photo-realistic buildings to visualization use cases by industries and enterprises for purposes such as training by humans or sensors. Blackshark.ai extracts semantic item classification data and metadata from 2D satellite and aerial images using AI techniques, creating a detailed blueprint of the environment that is then transformed into photo-realistic 3D models. This is a platform used in many applications, ranging from driverless cars and humanitarian relief to the planning of cities and government projects. In November 2022, the release of a \"globe plugin\" opened the whole world in 3D to anyone. The publicly available plugin allows users to create their own Unreal Engine applications for any type of simulation or visualization project based on the actual world.

#### **BlenderGIS** [^8] [^9]

BlenderGIS represents an open-source add-on for Blender. It is A modeling tool that allows users to import and process geospatial data. BlenderGIS enables the creation of 3D models based on geographic information. The present add-on has been used in various studies, such as the development of a 3D model of a geographical area in Varna, Bulgaria, and for 3D marine geo-morphometric modeling of the Arctic Ocean submarine topography. The use of BlenderGIS in these studies shows its capabilities of supporting geospatial data processing and visualization within Blender to provide highly detailed and accurate 3D models. Users can directly import satellite maps, displacement maps, and geometric data into Blender, such as buildings. A key distinction between BlenderGIS and other add-ons, such as Blender-OSM, is that users can select their preferred region on a world map from within Blender, as opposed to using a web browser. The BlenderGIS add-ons provide functionalities that support users in generating three-dimensional landscapes in Blender while manipulating geographical data. Finally, it provides several functionalities, such as the ability to import and export architectural data, generate landscape visualizations using GIS data, and establish scenes with precise terrain representation.

#### **Blockbax Platform**  [^10]

The Blockbax Platform is a commercially available solution that generates DTs for a wide range of assets, facilitating real-time insights and proactive management of potential issues. This platform provides an intuitive interface for creating dynamic virtual replicas and effectively contextualizing IoT data. The development of an operational DT on Blockbax involves the aggregation into a single plane of all the historical data, along with the real-time contextual view for any discrete assets or groups. In this sense, data has to be cleaned and pre-processed very carefully to provide very realistic physical views of every asset. The Blockbax Platform provides several different security layers using end-to-end encryption. It also adopts specific role-based access control, allowing the authentication and authorization of application users and API keys [^11].

#### **Digital Twin Cities Centre** [^12]

Digital Twin Cities Centre (DTCC) is an open-source technology to be used for city planning and administration. It is capable of supporting the development of DT models for municipal infrastructures and services. The platform can simulate various scenarios and forecast the effects produced by climatic and environmental changes on urban areas. Its prerogatives can be summarized into three main features: procedural UDT development, large-scale data visualization, and transition from manual to semi-automated or automatic building reconstruction. Extra features such as landscape design, health promotion, environmental management, and urban planning components are supported, although they require land use data. DTCC applies Unreal Engine to visualize the produced 3D virtual city model.

In Sweden, the Digital Twin Cities Centre has developed a methodology to create DTs of urban environments using open-source and commercial software in such a way that 3D-scale urban planning, simulation, and visualization become possible. This is with a view to, in the end, achieving real-time mesh digital twinning of any city with user interaction. The natural and built environment of the chosen region can be created using GIS data from Lantmçateriet, the Department of Land Survey. GIS data for virtual world creation includes building footprints, transportation networks, land use classification, ground elevation, and LiDAR scan data.

#### **Hexagon HxDR** [^13]

HxDR is a subscription-based SaaS platform that focuses mainly on providing the necessary tools and data for creating 3D replicas of urban environments. The platform contains a growing library of real-world cities that can be easily manipulated and extended by users. This software solution is designed to seamlessly combine heterogeneous input data from various sources, such as laser scanners, aerial photography, mobile mapping data, and indoor and outdoor terrestrial scan data. Users can integrate 3D model files generated by the Reality Capture software using the auto -mesh function that HxDR offers. Once data is retrieved and processed, they are delivered to a model which is obtained as a combination of different Hexagon software solutions. This model is capable of turning data captured from the real world into DTs. This integration encompasses various stages, namely Project Twin, Operational Twin, and Situational Awareness solutions[^14]. In the first stage, the basic preliminary set of structured data and documents is designed in Project Twin to define the configuration of the facility of interest. The resulting data are connected to 2D schematics and 3D models, providing useful visualizations that contribute to creating the Operational Twin. This component encompasses weaving engineering, operations, and maintenance data. Operational Twin is also responsible for exchanging data in interoperable fashions and managing links to further sources of information, such as asset performance, data history, real-time data solutions, and maintenance management. Finally, asset owners and operators can benefit from the DT capabilities to manage value-added tasks and processes.

#### **OpenCities Planner** 

OpenCities Planner is one of the software solutions developed by Bentley Systems. It is a city-scale DT planning and visualization platform. This platform enables smart cities developers to seamlessly integrate different types of data, such as 3D models, images, geographic documents, and vector data. Furthermore, OpenCities Planner supports smart city developers or project owners to seamlessly integrate various stakeholders, such as architects, engineers, property owners, and managers. Open Cities Planner can enhance and support the use of the Kalasatama DT platform by establishing data connections and developing visual scenarios. These scenarios can then be tested and explored within the virtual Kalasatama environment at a later stage. The platform further facilitates citizen engagement and collaboration among Kalasatama residents, enabling them to exchange expertise and knowledge. Finally, it allows for wind and solar simulation using semantic and reality mesh models, which demonstrate the effects of air flows and analyze the shadows cast over the Kalasatama district.

#### **SmartWorldPro** [^15]

SmartWorldPro is a UDTP developed by Cityzenith[^16] that can facilitate the design, construction, and management of smart cities. SmartWorldPro's main goal is to assist developers, planners, and architects in the creation of more efficient and sustainable urban environments. The platform generates 3D DTs of cities, which can be utilized for urban planning and development, by integrating data from multiple sources. SmartWorldPro is capable of aggregating models such as BIM, CAD, and GIS, with documents and IoT devices to generate a single 3D platform. This platform is based on the Unity game engine. SmartWorldPro solution is accompanied by an SDK, which can be used for expanding the available software stack and integrating third-party applications and/or content. SmartWorldPro makes available two primary options for installation: a standalone and a cloud-based SaaS version. It offers a range of services that facilitate the execution of a comprehensive solution. The provided services encompass the creation of 3D/4D asset models, integration of APIs, and development of tailored user interfaces. SmartWorldPro aims to improve the livability, functionality, and sustainability of urban areas.

This platform utilizes DT technology to generate virtual replicas of physical assets and systems within urban areas. These virtual models help city administrators to monitor and optimize urban environments toward achieving urban sustainability, efficiency, and resilience. SmartWorldPro makes available a dashboard showing all relevant data on various fields: design, legal, financial, parcel, energy, maintenance, and security information. The platform gives users the option to extend applications from a single structure to even thousands of structures. DTs developed using SmartWorldPro allow citizens to collect and analyze data related to energy consumption, air quality, traffic patterns, but also any other urban variables to make informed decisions and take precautions accordingly. It offers software and applications that allow collaborative planning, design, and management of urban projects. Finally, it brings together a wide range of stakeholders who can visualize how changes might affect the urban environment, such as architects, developers, city planners, and citizens. This prerogative of the platform can contribute to improve and optimize the procedures to support urban planning.

#### **Snap4City** [^17]

Snap4City is an open-source UDTP that can be used to collect a wide range of smart city/IoT data to enable various features and functionalities, such as data aggregation, predictive data analytics, anomaly detection, and trend indicators. It offers 2D dashboards to support data visualization. The Snap4City platform features a 3D City Modeling Framework for Smart City Digital Twin, which can be used to provide photo -realistic texture and to integrate 3D representations during the process of UDT development. This framework is available as a multi-layer 3D map in the open-source Snap4City platform. Users can refer to this 3D map as a widget on dashboards to visualize a full 3D city environment and a wide variety of data. These data include IoT devices (city sensors and actuators, as well as private devices), POI, heatmaps, geometries, bus routes, traffic flows, and polylines related to cycling paths. Users can easily map single city elements and device markers to inspect their data and attributes. In this way, the Snap4City platform enables easy and smart navigation and consultation of both the global UDT and its related data.

[^1]: <https://3d.bk.tudelft.nl/projects/3dbag>

[^2]: <https://www.kadaster.nl>

[^3]: <https://www.scaleoutsoftware.com/products/digital-twin-builder/>

[^4]: <https://www.ansys.com/products/digital-twin/ansys-twin-builder>

[^5]: <https://www.ansys.com/content/dam/product/digital-twin/twin-builder/ansys-twin-builder-technical-datasheet.pdf>

[^6]: <https://www.autodesk.com/products/forma>

[^7]: <https://spacemaker.ai>

[^8]: <https://blender-addons.org/blendergis-addon/>

[^9]: <https://github.com/domlysz/BlenderGIS>

[^10]: <https://blockbax.com/digital-twin/>

[^11]: <https://blockbax.com/platform/>

[^12]: <https://github.com/dtcc-platform/dtcc-core>

[^13]: <https://hxdr.com/>

[^14]: <https://blog.hexagongeosystems.com/what-is-a-digital-twin-the-what-why-how-and-whats-next/>

[^15]: <https://invest.cityzenith.com/old-home>

[^16]: <https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/cityzenith>

[^17]: <https://www.snap4city.org>
